# Pathfinder
Objective:
Pathfinder is a program that search for a path from the initial location to the final location using A\* algorithm. However, you can only travel by using parks and landmarks that are located throughout the Chicago District.

Implementation:
The function a_star_search is my implementation of the A\* Search algorithm. In this function, the variable parks references a dictionary of parks and landmarks that are in the CPD_Park_Art.csv file. The variable landmarks references a dictionary containing only landmarks that are in the Chicago_Landmarks.csv file. The variable source_node is an instance of ParkNode, and it stores the information of the initial location (e.g., name, longitude, latitude, parent, edges, and cost). The variable dest_node is an instance of ParkNode, and it stores the information of the destination.

The variable frontier is a priority queue, and it uses the module heapq. The frontier is heapify by the heapq each time an item is pushed to frontier. Each heap’s element is a tuple, for example (comparison value, data). Each tuple stores the path_cost f(n) and a node, for example (12.3456789, node). The heap compares the path_cost of every item in the frontier to sort it. The variable explored is a list that stores the name of each node (i.e., park or landmark) that has been visited. To convert longitude and latitude to kilometer, I used a reference code from Stackoverflow. The code implement the module math to conduct the conversion. The function find_distance implements this code.

The variable current_node is the node containing the smallest path cost and found by retrieving it from the frontier. The variable neighbor_node is an instance of ParkNode, and it references the park/landmark that has an edge with the current_node. The variable path_cost f(n) stores the sum of the cost to reach the neighbor_node g(n) and the cost to get from the neighbor_node to the goal h(n). The variable recur_index verifies if there is another instance containing the same park/landmark’s name in frontier and stores the index where the instance is found. The function compares the path_cost of neighbor_node and the path_cost of the other instance and replaces the instance in frontier only if the path_cost of neighbor_node is less than path_cost of the instance.

Running the program:
The program from the command line. Type the command python final_project.py to run the program. There will be a prompt that asks you to type "help" to get assistance or "start" to start the program. The commands are case sensitive. Next, a list of landmarks will be displayed. A prompt will appear and ask you to type a starting location from the list of landmarks. Another prompt will appear and ask you to type your destination from the list of landmarks. Please check for spelling errors or avoid adding extraneous whitespace, the program checks for spelling.